(Title) Genealogical DNA Testing

(Intro) With the technology of genealogical DNA testing you are now able to look at
the genetic insights into your ancestry, genetic traits, and health. 
Backed by the latest science and technologies, your personalized reports breakdown your genetic data and 
what your DNA has to say about lifestyle factors like diet, exercise, and sleep.

(Brands) 23andMe DNA test, Ancestry DNA test, National Geographic "Geno" test, MyHeritage DNA test

Below are 3 stories from 23andMe that I thought were compelling. 

(Stories:)

Daniellla
DNA strengthens her bond with Dad
Daniella, host of a local TV show in NYC, purchased a 23andMe kit for a story she was doing on genealogy and ancestry. She also purchased 
her father a kit. She knew her dad would be fascinated by it since he was a chemical engineer, and she thought it would be a good diversion
from the treatment he was undergoing for terminal cancer. 
Together they linked their accounts and compared their DNA-finding commonalities and differences. The experience prompted her dad to tell
Daniella in detail about his childhood and family ancestor and even to bring out an old slide show of the extended family. It was
a shared experience between a father and daughter, one that helped them get to know each other in a new way.
Daneilla's dad passed away a couple of months later. "I'm so glad to have shared this experience with him, and hopefully it gave him some
greater sense of the context of his life."

Michael
Son finds 80-year old dad
Michael was raised an only child by loving adoptive parents who passed away 25 years ago. He came to 23andMe hoping to find out more about 
his ancestry, but a match in the 23andME DNA relatives tool opened the door for him to find his 80-year-old birth father and nine brothers
and sisters. 
Michael's first phone call with this dad ended with something he hadn't hear in a very long time, "Goodnight, Son."

Greg
Dad's genes are clue to son's health
When Greg and his wife introduced solid foods to their third child, they noticed he would push away anything with fruit in it. As he grew
his reaction was not just to fruits, but anything sweet. He even threw up when he had cough syrup. Greg and his wife spoke with doctors,
but all of themed to shrug off their concerns. 
Greg was personally interested in genetic testing and decided to do 23andMe for himself. Right away Greg noticed something in his 
reports. It said he was a carrier of a variant for Hereditary Fructose Intolerance. This is a rare disorder that leaves a person 
without the protein needed to breakdown fructose ( a sugar found in fruits and other sweetened foods). Undetected, it can cause
liver and kidney damage. 
"It was like a light bulb clicked. I thought, "I've got to get his doctor to test him." His son was 7 at the time. With testing, 
doctors diagnosed Greg's son with the disease. The couple's other children did not inherit the condition. The diagnosis has meant a vast overhaul of their son's diet, but 
Greg is relieved to have found out what was wrong with him. "We're just happy that the got diagnosed a lot younger than people normally do."



